Are right we are almost done.
We only have one step to go.
And this is step three we already implemented step 1 and step 2 and now we're about to implement step
3 where we have to update the numbers of times the strategies have received a one word or two around
and and the number of times the strategies have received a zero we weren't up to around.
And I remind that we created two variables with these two numbers which are in fact not numbers but
a list of these numbers for each of our nine strategies.
And that's exactly what we have to do right now.
So how are we going to do that properly.
Well really we just need to follow what's written here.
Indeed we first need to check if the strategy we selected in step to here you know this one here thanks
to the for loop.
Well we just need to check the reward of the strategy because if the reward of the strategy is one well
we'll have to update this number here and for that specific strategy that was elected you know so well
only update this number for the specifics that was selected in step two.
And if the strategy we selected is that to get us a zero reward well same we only have to update the
second number that is number of times the strategy has received to zero.
We were up to around and and for only this strategy that was selected.
So let's be careful.
They basically will only have to date one element of these two lists we created here.
All right.
So let's do this.
First we have to get in the reward.
So I'm going to call it exactly as we call it here reward.
Yes.
So I'm just copying this and I'm going to paste that and replace r as by ts.
That's the word we get after selecting the strategy TS here at the specific round and we're dealing
with right now.
And so how are you going to get that reward.
Well again we're going to get it from our matrix of rewards which we created through the simulation.
So let's take that again.
I'm going to go to varry will explore inside which I'm going to open our matrix X rewards.
And let's just explain this again quickly.
So let's say that the customer we are dealing with right now or the round we're dealing with right now
and this for loop is round number for you know round of index 3.
So for this round we are at the beginning and therefore Thompson simply did not get enough trial and
error info is like the best strategy and therefore the highest of the run draws from the data distributions
of the 9 strategies will probably lead us to a better one.
You know like this one strategy number three.
And therefore since right now we're dealing with a specific round that is a specific customer put into
that row and the strategy selected is this one corresponding to this specific column column the next
to well to get the reward.
We simply need to get the number in the cell of this row and this column which is zero and that corresponds
of course to the situation where the customer did not convert that is did not subscribe to the premium
plan.
After we deployed strategy number three for the specific customer.
All right but then you know as we go in the rounds and as Tompson something is learning which is the
best strategy.
Well now let's say that you know we dealing with customer number two thousand six hundred and twenty.
You know of next 2600 twenty three.
Well at this point.
THOMPSON something might have shifted the beta distribution of the best strategy.
That is a strategy of index enough to the right and therefore the highest of the random draws picked
from the 9 beta distributions will probably be the one of the beta distribution of strategy number 7
because you know at this point this has now become the beta distribution for which the positive probabilities
are for the highest conversion rates and therefore that's why at this point we'll probably get you know
the strategy number seven because indeed it has the beta distribution the most shifted to the right
and therefore the beta distribution that has highly positive probabilities for the highest range of
conversion rates.
And so let's say that it is the fact and therefore that Tompson sampling indeed select and the specific
round that is for the specific customer strategy number seven and therefore we deployed a strategy and
indeed by deploying the strategy the customer is attracted to it because it's the best strategy and
the customer decides to subscribe to the premium plan and that's when we one we want for that specific
round.
Well the reward will get will be one and we'll update this exact number because the strategy selected
received one we word but then that doesn't have to happen every round.
Indeed at the next round even if Thompson sampling will probably select this strategy again because
again the beta distribution will again be even more shifted to the right.
Well unfortunately not all the customers have to be attracted to strategy number seven.
And that's the case with next one according to our simulation because in the next customer is only attracted
to strategy number one you know we'll only decide to subscribe if we show him strategy number one.
And therefore at the next round assuming that Thompson sampling will indeed select again the strategy
number 7 because again it has the beta distribution with the highly positive probabilities for the highest
range of conversion rates then it will probably select this again.
No because it's taking the maximum of the wrong drugs from the beta distributions but unfortunately
the next customer won't convert and we'll get zero reward.
And so in that case what we'll have to do is update this number here.
All right.
So let's do this.
The first thing we have to do therefore is just to get this reward and we get it exactly from our matrix
of rewards X which right now has to give us the sell of Roe.
And because we're dealing with customer end in the round and and call him of index strategy TS because
that's the strategy that was just elected and stepped right here.
So by calling this will getting the reward we get by deploying strategy ts on customer.
Perfect.
So now we got this reward.
Well the next step is very simply to implement this you know implement these two conditions to get the
right number.
And therefore what we're going to do here is check first if the reward of the strategy we just selected
that is reward as if reward TS is equal to one.
Well in that case we'll have to update our numbers of rewards one barbel but only for the strategy that
was selected.
You know that's a list where each element corresponds to a strategy and we'll only date the elements
corresponding to the strategy that was selected.
And therefore we're going to do here is just get this.
And so if we would see as equals 1 that is if the reward of the strategy we just selected is equal to
one.
Well we'll update the element of this numbers of reward to one list corresponding to the strategy that
was just elected.
That is the element of index strategy TS and we'll increment it by one or every one we can do it this
way we can just copy that again and add a plus one like that.
You know we just add a 1 to this number here but only for the strategy that was selected exactly as
we have to do here and the now very easily we have to do.
The other condition which is a condition where we get a zero reward.
But since these are complimentary conditions Well we just need to add else here and now we can just
very easily copy this and paste it here so that we have a date in the condition that we get zero reward
which is a condition in the else here we update our numbers of awards zero variable only for the strategy
that was selected is only the element of this list corresponding to that strategy selected.
And same with increment that 2 1.
And here we go.
We're done with step 3 and therefore we're done with the whole algorithm.